# Installation
For this section of the course, we will use the packages `jupyter`, `pandas` and `matplotlib`. Install them by running
the following commands in your terminal:

## For Windows
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install jupyter
pip install pandas
pip install matplotlib
```

## For macOS
On mac, by default the pip (and python) command refers to the python 2 installation. In order to install packages for
your python3 installation, use:
```
pip3 install --upgrade pip
pip3 install jupyter
pip3 install pandas
pip3 install matplotlib
```

## Verification
To make sure all of these packages were installed correctly, run the script `installation_verification.py`. It should print `Success!` without any errors.

## Pip
Normally, you should already have installed pip when installing python. To check which packages are already installed, type `pip list` in your terminal. If this does not work, ensure pip is installed properly.

## Alternative: Anaconda
You might have heard (or already used) <a href="https://www.anaconda.com/download">Anaconda</a>. However, we recommend to use pip.

# Modules and packages: explained

## Imports - a recap
In Python lot of functions are already programmed and available to you. They are stored in modules and packages. Remember we used:

```python
	from math import ceil

	print(ceil(5.2))
```

From a built-in module named `math`, we imported the `ceil` function in order to use the function. Alternatively, we could simply import the the whole `math` module and call the `ceil` function by specifying the module with function call:

```python
    import math

    print(math.ceil(5.2))
    # You can also call other math functions
    print(math.floor(5.2))
    print(math.sqrt(4))
```
The advantage of this approach is that you can call all the functions in the math module this way. The downside is that you have to write slightly more code every time you want to call this function.

Finally we can also simply import all functions within a module:
```python
    from math import *    # import * imports all functions in the module

    # you no longer have to reference these functions with math.
    print(ceil(5.3))
    print(floor(5.3))
    print(sqrt(4))
```
This looks like it's the best of both worlds: we don't have to write the extra code and we have access to all functions. However, it's not recommended to ever import all the functions in a module. If multiple modules define functions with the same name, only one of them can be imported, and you as the programmer might not be aware that this happened, leading to hard-to-find bugs.

## External modules
Besides the modules coming with your Python installation, there are tons of modules available on the internet. If you have followed the installation instructions, you know by know that we can use pip to download these modules.

**🧰Task** Search for the `pandas` library on the <a>pypi.org</a> website and checkout the project description. In the upper left corner you see `pip install pandas`, which is the installation instruction we have already used to install the pandas package onto our system. If you have done this correctly, you can import it just like we imported the math module:

```python
    import pandas

    pandas.DataFrame(data) # We'll see what this code does later on.
```

## Packages
As you might have noticed, we called `pandas` a package instead of module. What is the difference? Basically a package is a module that contains other modules. For example the `pandas` package contains the `pandas.errors` module wich contains all the `Error` classes `pandas` uses. As an example, take a look at the [`AbstractMethodError`](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.errors.AbstractMethodError.html#pandas.errors.AbstractMethodError). This error is defined in the `pandas.errors` module. Therefore in order to import it. You have to use "dotted module names" to import it:
```python
    from pandas.errors import AbstractMethodError

    raise AbstractMethodError(...)
```
or
```python
    import pandas

    raise pandas.errors.AbstractMethodError()
```

## Package abbreviations
When importing packages it is common to use an abbreviated name, using the `as` syntax. Using this syntax, you can then refer to the package using the abbreviated name throughout your code. Although it is possible to give them any name, many packages have a specific abbreviation that is used by convention (eg `pd` for `pandas` and `np` for `numpy`):

```python
	import pandas as pd
	import numpy as np

	pd.DataFrame(data)

```

